CEO's statement
By 2021 we already reached our long-term targets for 2025, which was set as recently as January 2020. We now have a market share of nearly 7%, and we  see continued strong growth potential in Sweden. Our focus is, and will remain 
 
indefinitely, the Swedish savings market.
Sweden’s most satisfied savings customers  12 years in a row 
Another year of the global pandemic has passed, even though we cautiously started returning to a more normal day-to-day existence after the summer. However, many of the restrictions were reinstated at the end of the year until February, when most of them were taken away. For two years we have lived with the pandemic, or as my 21-year-old daughter recently said, “Dad, I have spent 10% of my life in a pandemic.” The pandemic has been exhausting. I really hope that we now can return to a more normal life.
2021 was a very successful year for Avanza. We have passed 1 million stock-owning customers and 1 million fund-owning customers, and reached a total of 1,660,100 customers. Our most important target by far is, and will always be, customer satisfaction. In December, we won the Swedish Quality Index’s award for Sweden’s most satisfied savings customers for the 12th year in a row. We are honoured and will naturally do everything we can to win again for the 13th time. In the last three years, we have welcomed 823,000 customers to Avanza. Over these three years, the stock market has gone up by 35%, 15% and 39%, respectively. We have many young customers at Avanza and a large share of our new customers have never before seen the market go down. We have several different ways to communicate with our customers, but by far the most important message is to think long-term and diversify, and to consider how fees affect your savings. 

###
“ Avanza is a company for everyone in Sweden who understands the importance of personal savings”
As of September 30, Avanza’s share of the savings market was 6.6% and our share of the net inflow on a rolling 12-month basis was 18%. This is positive, but at the same time shows that there is still a lot of room for us to grow in Sweden. We are committed to a continued focus on savings and investments and growing in Sweden. Although we have now reached a market share of 15% of Sweden’s population, we see continued strong growth ahead of us. Avanza is, and will remain, relevant to everyone in Sweden who understands the importance of saving and has a bank account.
Updated targets with a focus on continued strong growth 
By 2021 we had already met all of the financial targets for 2025 that were announced in early 2020. Therefore we have raised our ambition and updated the targets. We are now aiming for a 10% share of the Sweden’s savings market by the end of 2025. With regard to costs, we are transitioning to an efficiency target that also shows the scalability of the business model. This means a costs to savings ratio not exceeding 12 basis points, where the ambition is to be even lower. Costs for 2022 are estimated at between SEK 1,050 million and SEK 1,070 million. Since 2019, income has increased by close to 180% and costs by  30%, which clearly shows that we are scalable. When it comes to growth, I have Avanza’s fantastic employees to thank for their commitment to improving our offering and always putting our customers first.

###
“ We shall reach a market share of 10% by the end  of 2025”
The target is also to deliver an annual return on equity of at least 35%, which shows that we are keeping a close eye on our balance sheet as well. One key measure of how well we manage our capital is the leverage ratio. In order to be able to continue to deliver a dividend of 70% of profit in coming years, we will issue Additional Tier 1 capital in 2022.  
Savers are placing growing importance  on the user experience
We have maintained very strong margins in recent years. This is a result of our growth and scalability, at the same time that it creates flexibility for us. For example, it allows us to reduce prices and create an even more attractive offering for further growth opportunities and customer satisfaction. In the spring, we broadened our Start offer to include funds. This means that all customers with less than SEK 50,000 in savings capital are refunded all their fund commissions. They had already been able to trade equities commission-free on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. An important goal in this is to inspire more people to start saving. We have cut the interest rate on our mortgages and have improved our margin lending to give more people the opportunity to borrow at a lower rate. We have also reduced the price of our six Auto funds by 40%.

###
“ The user experience is becoming increasingly important”
We work in a competitive industry. New companies are jumping into the market and we know that others are close behind. We welcome this, since it keeps us on our toes. It isn’t just a question of product and price, however. The user experience is becoming much more important as well, which is why we have launched Savings Targets, Milestones, Your Month and Right Now, so when our customers log in they are met by even more information relevant to them and their savings. Another improvement is a broader mortgage offering thanks to the addition of Landshypotek to the platform. Here our aim is to eventually become a mortgage platform, but of course we realise that it will take time. 
New regulations must be designed  to help the consumer

###
Many other things happened in 2021 that in one way or another impacted Avanza. The year began with a debate on whether or not fund commissions should even exist, and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (FSA) investigated the industry. While nothing major was presented in its report before the end of the year, it did mention that the industry had largely examined itself. Several instances of fees where there were a potential conflict of interest had been made more transparent to customers. We still do not know whether or how the government will pursue this, but we are prepared to adapt. I hope, however, that any new regulations truly focus on the customer’s perspective and not cloudy transparency. If you look at other countries that have banned commissions, the situation has not gotten better, and it is doubtful whether it has become cheaper for the customer. Feel free to change regulations, but make sure to put the consumer first.
During the year, we experienced a leak of personal information to Facebook. Our assessment is that no customers were harmed and we are fully cooperating with the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection and the Swedish FSA, which are investigating a potential breach of the General Data Protection Regulation. At this point, we still do not know whether this will lead to a fine, but we have closely re-examined all our processes to ensure that it does not happen again. 
On April 1, transfer rights improved for Sweden’s pension savers when it became cheaper to transfer savings to the company of their choice. Avanza’s highly competitive offer in terms of range of investment opportunities, user friendliness and price has encouraged more people to move their savings to us. Our calculations show that a 40-year-old who transfers SEK 500,000 to Avanza can, because we do not charge maintenance fees or fixed account fees, receive as much as SEK 1 million more in retirement at age 65. The government has now drafted a bill to expand transfer rights for unit-linked insurance policies signed also before 2007. The revisions are proposed take effect on 1 July 2022. While we are seeing increased transfer flows to Avanza, information campaigns and a simpler transfer process are still needed to get more people to take the step. 
CEO's statement

###
“ Transferring a pension  to Avanza could mean SEK 1 million more in  retirement”
In the area of sustainability, much is happening with respect to regulations. We have both the Disclosure Regulation and the Taxonomy to now take into account. Plenty of time and energy are being spent around Europe on these issues, but there is still much left to be desired when it comes to clarity. We are well aware that the quality of our own reporting will have to improve as the regulations gradually change over time. The goal of regulators with this year’s reporting is that companies get started. Sustainability is important not only for the planet, but also at a company level to remain attractive as an employer, partner, investment and in customer relationships. From a customer perspective, we are concentrating on making it easier to find sustainable investment choices and to increase the share of savings capital held by women. 
Increased uncertainty leading up to 2022, but we are only just beginning our journey
Looking ahead, there is a feverish debate right now whether global inflation is transitory or whether it will stick around. I believe we are headed towards a period of higher inflation. The combination with low interest rates we haven’t seen before. My opinion is therefore that we will see rising interest rates in the coming years. My concern with higher rates is that many people do not remember, or have never experienced, mortgage rates above 2%. We are facing a scenario we have not experienced and all we can do is to work closely with our customers. The positive thing is that the stock market over time has always been the most lucrative investment alternative. Households also have a lot of money and there are many companies that are doing well. Good prospects for investments and consumption are positive indicators for the market going forward.
Lastly, I would like to thank all our customers and shareholders for what, in spite of everything, was a fantastic 2021. However, I remain convinced that Avanza is just in the beginning its journey. I am also proud to be working every day with the industry’s best employees to make Avanza a better company. The engagement I have seen during these difficult times leaves me speechless. 
We are ready for the next step!
Stockholm in February 2022
